> https://slhenty.com/project/agile-coaching?a=true&n=99



Steve Henty

![Steve
Henty](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FProfile_close_square.f71e0d71.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

UI Development

UX Design

AI / ML Adoption

[Projects](/?a=true&n=99#projects)

![Agile Planning and Coaching: Transition UX practice to agile
methodology](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fagile-plan.hero.jpeg&w=3840&q=75)

Agile Planning and Coaching: Transition UX practice to agile methodology

design

### The Project

**The entire organization** of ~1000 product, design, and development
personnel **transitioned from a traditional waterfall SDLC to an agile
methodology** following the Scaled Agile Partners’ SAFE framework. At the time
of the transition, SAFE had only sparse elaboration on how to fit the UX
design process into the agile methods, rituals, etc. Over the course of the
6-month transition, **UX design worked with the SAFE coaches to tailor agile
methods to accommodate UX design processes**.

### My Role

**Sr. Interaction Designer** leading the effort to **select, modify, and coach
agile methods specific to UX design processes**.

### Interesting Challenges

The most important challenge faced by UX design was how to **provide the
results** of what can be **lengthy research and design processes** to
development teams operating **on short, time-boxed sprint cycles**. We started
by adopting the same SCRUM methods and agile rituals as the rest of the
organization. Over time, we discovered **the final designs** , and even the
**design challenges** we were willing to take on in the first place were
**compromised by the strict two-week time-box**. At the same time, we found
**immeasurable benefit from all the remaining practices** : daily standup,
task boards, retrospectives, task breakdown, point-based estimates, limited
WIP, etc.

The solution was moving to a **modified Kanban methodology**. While strict
Kanban eschews task estimates, we realized our design tasks had natural and
necessary variations in difficulty, which point-estimating captured nicely.
This simple modification allowed us to **relax the one aspect of agile that
compromised our output — strict time-boxing** — while retaining all the
remaining agile benefits.

### Results

Largely as a result of working with our UX team, Scaled Agile Partners
**modified SAFE** to include the **guidance for non-development practices** we
derived and shared during our agile transition.

Based on the successes with UX, I was asked by **several additional non-
development practices** such as Technical Communications, Education Services,
Product Marketing, and Content Editorial to **assist them with creating hybrid
methods and tools** so they could participate in the agile methodology as
well.

I continued to offer **insights into agile design methods** during in-house
consultations with external business partners and **prospective SAFE
adherents** , as well as presentations and panel discussions at **UX
professional organizations**.

## Skills

Agile, SCRUM, Kanban

UX Design

agile coaching

## Demos / Artifacts

SAFE framework

Note the "Customer Centricity" underpinning the entire framework, and the
inclusion of "Lean UX" and "Design Thinking" throughout the various
configuration levels. These factors were informed by our work with the Scaled
Agile founders.

[View SAFE](https://www.scaledagileframework.com/)

Built with[![Next.js](/_next/static/media/nextjs-logotype-dark-
background.84e239c2.svg)](https://nextjs.org/)by Steve Henty.Hosted
by[![Vercel](/_next/static/media/vercel-logotype-
light.079985bd.svg)](https://vercel.com).

Theme: [![Solarized](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fsolarized-
yinyang.529358b9.png&w=1080&q=75)solarized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solarized)
(Why? - [Ethan Schoonover](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) |
[WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/very-mathematical-history-perfect-color-
combination/))

© 2015-2024 Steve Henty

