> https://slhenty.com/project/glimpse-ui-pattern?a=true&n=99



Steve Henty

![Steve
Henty](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FProfile_close_square.f71e0d71.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

UI Development

UX Design

AI / ML Adoption

[Projects](/?a=true&n=99#projects)

![GlimpseUI \(tm\) - A card-based operational
dashboard](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fglimpse-ui-
pattern.hero.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

GlimpseUI (tm) - A card-based operational dashboard

design

### The Project

A legacy workflow application suffered from **"icon overload"** in several of
its primary displays. The displays comprised data grids and lists of records.
Over time, the **function of the lists was overloaded with indicators**
consisting of icons, colors, fonts, or some combination of these to signal
workflow conditions. The cognitive load of so many indicators (~40)
necessitated an in-app legend - and accompanying printed mouse pad! - which
provided only limited relief.

The **GlimpseUI TM** represents a replacement of the lists and indicators with
a proper dashboard. Rather than a typical KPI (Key Performance Indicators)
dashboard, however, the elements for this **"operational dashboard"** were
designed as **individual summaries of the underlying workflow records**. In
this way, the multitude of indicators from the original list displays were
**re-imagined as dashboard "cards"** that provided **drill-down to a filtered
list of records** that all share a common workflow characteristic.

### My Role

**Interaction Designer** responsible for **conceiving and designing the
specification** for the new "operational dashboard."

### Interesting Challenges

The primary challenge for this project was not the design itself, nor
communicating the implementation to development teams, but **overcoming the
misconception of the design** among Product Management as a typical KPI
dashboard. If construed as a KPI dashboard, the design fails to solve the
underlying workflow goals. However, once understood as an **operational
dashboard** showing aggregated data for **entire classes of actionable
records** , the design was recognized as a **significant improvement over data
grids and lists** as the primary landing page.

In order to communicate the correct intent as an operational dashboard, I
created a **walkthrough of hand-drawn sketches** that demonstrate the **range
of operational summaries and interactions possible**.

### Results

The design was **adopted and implemented** as part of a visual and interaction
redesign of the application.

### Notes

> #### Usage notes for Axure prototype
>
> The format of this prototype includes a Design Brief introduction intended
> for a broad range of prototype styles. **The design brief is accurate.**
> However, as this specification is a series of static sketches, only the View
> Wireframes button is appropriate - the other entry points (Start Prototype,
> View Flow) will lead to dead ends.

## Skills

Axure

paper sketch

## Demos / Artifacts

Axure Prototype

Scanned paper-pencil sketches are assembled into a browsable Axure prototype
used to communicate the concept across User Experience, Development, and
Product Management.

[View on Axshare](http://op2hv0.axshare.com/#p=design_brief)

Built with[![Next.js](/_next/static/media/nextjs-logotype-dark-
background.84e239c2.svg)](https://nextjs.org/)by Steve Henty.Hosted
by[![Vercel](/_next/static/media/vercel-logotype-
light.079985bd.svg)](https://vercel.com).

Theme: [![Solarized](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fsolarized-
yinyang.529358b9.png&w=1080&q=75)solarized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solarized)
(Why? - [Ethan Schoonover](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) |
[WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/very-mathematical-history-perfect-color-
combination/))

Â© 2015-2024 Steve Henty

