> https://slhenty.com/?a=true&n=99

Steve Henty

![Steve
Henty](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FProfile_close_square.f71e0d71.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

UI Development

UX Design

AI / ML Adoption

[About](?a=true&n=99#about)

|

[Projects](?a=true&n=99#projects)

|

[Contact](?a=true&n=99#contact)

# About

I am Steve Henty, a software engineer with a passion for creating and using
technology to improve the human experience. I have designed and built software
applications across a broad range of subject domains, like finance and
productivity workflow, hardware systems control, cognitive process modeling,
and satellite communications monitoring to name a few.

My focus is on applying Generative AI, Machine Learning, and eventually AGI in
beneficial ways to help people make sense of their information environment,
make knowledgeable decisions, and take meaningful action.

I am a lifelong learner and mentor, and enjoy sharing my knowledge and
experience with others. Feedback from colleagues and team members is I help
them understand and apply complex concepts in a way that is meaningful and
useful to them. Project leaders note that having me on the team is a force
multiplier, and I have a unique ability to bridge the gap between technical
and non-technical team members.

This site is a collection of my work and interests. I hope you find something
here that is interesting and useful to you.

If you are working on or considering projects that would benefit from my
skills and approach, or if you just want to chat about technology and its
impact on society I would love to hear from you. Please feel free to reach out
to me in the _Contact_ section.

You can see details of my work and interests at
[slhenty.com](http://slhenty.com).

If you are working on or considering projects that would benefit from my
skills and approach, please feel free to reach out to me at any time. I look
forward to hearing from you!

Mission

Ensure technology leverages human abilities, enables human agency, and
improves the human condition.

Capabilities

  * Web technology stacks
  * AI and Machine Learning application
  * Help teams understand and operate within technical and business tradeoff space
  * Liaise between design and development efforts
  * Bring long experience to bear on questions of architecture and developer mentoring

Focus

  * Safe application of AI / ML
  * Machine learning insights to hard problems
  * UI design and development for the above, and for general workflow improvement

Approach

  * Achieve balance between development framework churn vs stagnation
  * Measure framework choices against historical paradigm shifts, suitability to purpose, community support, and developer experience
  * Neither a Luddite, nor a Fanboy
  * Prefer mastery over novelty
  * Prefer accuracy over haste
  * Prefer utility over hype

Background

  * Web and Fullstack Development
  * Interaction Design and Usability
  * Neural Network / Cognitive Psychology models
  * Agile Champion
  * UCSD (U. of California, San Diego) _suma cum laude_ in CogSci and HCI
  * Client-Server Development (Lotus PCLP, when it mattered ðŸ˜‰)
  * LAN Consultant (Novel CNE, when it mattered ðŸ˜‰)

Domains

  * Climate change communication - bias detection and fact validation via NLP and RAG
  * Community WiFi in emerging markets - satellite back haul provisioning, mobile device captive portal, CPE configuration
  * Airline flight dynamics - satellite back haul control, monitoring, and reporting
  * Satellite communications - carrier band configuration and monitoring
  * Package manager tooling and security audit
  * Automotive estimating - body shop and insurance carrier
  * US Government procurement - finance workflow and audit control
  * Disaster recovery
  * Academic journal peer review - custom journal DB and workflow
  * Finance - credit union accounting

![Omdena](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fomdena.9568ffe5.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Viasat](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fint-vsat-tm-rgb-
grd.d0f6e367.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Sonatype](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FSonatype_stacked_logo_full_color.df29375a.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Mitchell](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fmitchell.29976fe4.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![University of California, San
Diego](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FUCSanDiegoLogo-
BlueGold.ee5370b6.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![TechFlow](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Ftechflow2.7e15fdd6.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![American
Airlines](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Faa_aa__ahz_4cp_grd_pos.67485ede.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Christie](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fchristie-blue-logo-
low-res.79baab75.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![FixAuto](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Ffixauto_blue.f5788cd8.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![FlightAware](/_next/static/media/FA_Logo_RGB-Hex.c2f903fa.svg)

![US General Services
Administration](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FGSA%20Advantage_Color_only_2020.787b6259.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Mikrotik](/_next/static/media/mikrotik_newlogo.63e3ed51.svg)

![Sonatype Nexus](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fsonatype-
repository-logo.3685100d.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Salesforce](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FSalesforce-
logo.7a653555.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![State
Farm](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FState_Farm_logo_PNG1.1442e8ad.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![Unifi](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Funifi.df208f66.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![United
Airlines](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FUnited_Logo_in_Blue.7dd48880.webp&w=3840&q=75)

![US Army Corps of
Engineers](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fusace_castle_red.fac17a3e.webp&w=3840&q=75)

# Projects

Show all

Type:

All

Sort by:

Relevance

Reverse

[![Climate Change: Detecting bias in news
reporting](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fclimate-model.webp&w=3840&q=75)Climate
Change: Detecting bias in news reportingai / mlCreate and publish an AI / ML
model that detects bias in news reporting on climate
change.](/project/climate-change-bias?a=true&n=99)[![LLM / Generative AI
\(WIP\): Experiments in Prompting](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fgenai-
exploration.webp&w=3840&q=75)LLM / Generative AI (WIP): Experiments in
Promptingai / mlTest and tune various approaches to LLM / GenAI
prompting.](/project/genai-exploration?a=true&n=99)[![Community Wifi: Local
wifi for underserved communities](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fcomm-
wifi.thumb.webp&w=3840&q=75)Community Wifi: Local wifi for underserved
communitiesdevWifi access provisioned via satellite for remote villages in
Latin America and Africa](/project/community-wifi?a=true&n=99)[![GlimpseUI
\(tm\) - A card-based operational
dashboard](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fglimpse-ui-
pattern.thumb.jpg&w=3840&q=75)GlimpseUI (tm) - A card-based operational
dashboarddesignA design pattern for showing actionable, aggregated summaries
of underlying data sets.](/project/glimpse-ui-pattern?a=true&n=99)[![Jury
Simulation: Constraint satisfaction
networks](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fjury-
simulation.thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)Jury Simulation: Constraint satisfaction
networksai / mlInvestigate the effects of mid-trial jury deliberation on
verdict outcomes using a constraint satisfaction network to simulate the
psychological basis for confirmation bias.](/project/jury-
simulation?a=true&n=99)[![Configurable Component: Real-time Report
Builder](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fconfig-
report.thumb.webp&w=3840&q=75)Configurable Component: Real-time Report
BuilderdevDisplay satellite performance data for airline WiFi service in a
table that supports ad-hoc selection of columns and performance metrics, with
changes rendered in real time.](/project/realtime-report-
builder?a=true&n=99)[![San Diego Public Library: Scenic projector
app](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fsdpl.thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=75)San Diego Public
Library: Scenic projector appdesignA back-office web application controls the
configuration and real-time operation of a scenic projector and free-standing
kiosk.](/project/sdpl-app-design?a=true&n=99)[![San Diego Public Library:
Scenic projector
integration](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fsdpl.thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=75)San
Diego Public Library: Scenic projector integrationdevVIP names are displayed
on an architectural pillar using a scenic projector; a free-standing kiosk
allows search and selection of a name to display the associated VIP signature
on the pillar.](/project/sdpl-scenic-projector?a=true&n=99)[![UI Telemetry
Specification: Lightweight UI usage metrics](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fui-
telemetry.png&w=3840&q=75)UI Telemetry Specification: Lightweight UI usage
metricsdesignDefine a lightweight, ubiquitous telemetry payload to track UI
usage events for flexible post-hoc analysis of UI element usage, workflow
paths, and UI performance.](/project/ui-telemetry-spec?a=true&n=99)[![Wrapped
Components: Highcharts](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fwrapped-
chart.png&w=3840&q=75)Wrapped Components: HighchartsdevWrap a vanilla JS
charting engine for use as a Polymer component with a simplified contract
tailored to display time-series data.](/project/wrapped-components-
highcharts?a=true&n=99)[![Agile Planning and Coaching: Transition UX practice
to agile methodology](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fagile-
plan.thumb.jpeg&w=3840&q=75)Agile Planning and Coaching: Transition UX
practice to agile methodologydesignPlan, coordinate, and coach the process
changes necessary to conduct UX research and design according to SCRUM / Agile
practices.](/project/agile-coaching?a=true&n=99)[![Exploratory Prototyping:
Mediator pattern in Axure](/images/mediator-axure.svg)Exploratory Prototyping:
Mediator pattern in Axuredesign / devDesign and implement a reusable solution
for un-scripted exploration of multiple workflow paths in Axure
prototypes.](/project/exploratory-prototyping?a=true&n=99)[![Iterative
Prototyping: Estimate workflow integration](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fiter-
proto.thumb.webp&w=3840&q=75)Iterative Prototyping: Estimate workflow
integrationdesignRapidly iterate design prototypes between usability studies
to hone in on the most successful task sequence for a critical
workflow.](/project/iterative-prototyping?a=true&n=99)[!["Stacking the Deck":
Design principles communication plan](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fstack-
deck.png&w=3840&q=75)"Stacking the Deck": Design principles communication
plandesignPropose and coordinate the production of a deck of "collector cards"
featuring design principles for internal distribution to employees at training
events and conferences.](/project/stack-deck-design-
cards?a=true&n=99)[!["Suggested Action": in-place workflow
guidance](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fsuggest-
action.thumb.webp&w=3840&q=75)"Suggested Action": in-place workflow
guidancedesignGuide normal application flow by augmenting workflow indicators
in real time.](/project/suggested-action-pattern?a=true&n=99)[![Tablet UI for
genomic imaging hardware](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Faplegen-
ui.thumb.png&w=3840&q=75)Tablet UI for genomic imaging hardwaredevTablet UI
for software control of Omega Lumâ„¢ imaging hardware to provide touch-screen
control of Western blot and gel image samples.](/project/aplegen-tablet-
ui?a=true&n=99)[![Tiger Team: CSS
refactoring](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fcss-refactor.webp&w=3840&q=75)Tiger
Team: CSS refactoringdesign / devRefactor un-standardized, conflicting
application CSS to provide consistent, standardized re-usable styles and UI
components.](/project/css-refactor?a=true&n=99)[![Re-usable Component:
Refactor FineUploader modal
lightbox](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Ffineuploader.png&w=3840&q=75)Re-usable
Component: Refactor FineUploader modal lightboxdevRefactor an AngularJS
directive-wrapped JQuery UI to match an existing application style and modal
lightbox.](/project/fineuploader-modal?a=true&n=99)[![Line Item Images:
Mobile-first
design](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Flineitem.thumb.webp&w=3840&q=75)Line Item
Images: Mobile-first designdesignA mobile app design intended to attach images
to "line item" data records as supporting evidence.](/project/mobile-line-
item-images?a=true&n=99)

Show all

# Contact

## Working

Inquiries:

Show Contact Form

LinkedIn:

as [slhenty](https://www.linkedin.com/in/slhenty/)

## Writing

Medium:

as [@slhenty](https://medium.com/@slhenty)

## Coding

GitHub:

as [slhenty](https://github.com/slhenty)

GitHub:

as [cognivator](https://github.com/cognivator)

Built with[![Next.js](/_next/static/media/nextjs-logotype-dark-
background.84e239c2.svg)](https://nextjs.org/)by Steve Henty.Hosted
by[![Vercel](/_next/static/media/vercel-logotype-
light.079985bd.svg)](https://vercel.com).

Theme: [![Solarized](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fsolarized-
yinyang.529358b9.png&w=1080&q=75)solarized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solarized)
(Why? - [Ethan Schoonover](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) |
[WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/very-mathematical-history-perfect-color-
combination/))

Â© 2015-2024 Steve Henty

