> https://slhenty.com/project/suggested-action-pattern?a=true&n=99



Steve Henty

![Steve
Henty](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2FProfile_close_square.f71e0d71.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

UI Development

UX Design

AI / ML Adoption

[Projects](/?a=true&n=99#projects)

!["Suggested Action": in-place workflow
guidance](/_next/image?url=%2Fimages%2Fsuggest-action.hero.webp&w=3840&q=75)

"Suggested Action": in-place workflow guidance

design

### The Project

As part of an **in-app user assistance initiative** , this project explored
alternatives to traditional contextual help, coach marks, training
introductions, tutorial walkthroughs, demo modes, etc. Each of the preceding
solutions to in-app assistance suffer from being **outside the normal work
context** either in time or space, and therefor **intrusive to the normal
flow**.

The solution **selectively applies a stylistic change** to only one action
(button or link) on a screen to indicate it is the most appropriate action.
Once a given action is no longer the suggested action, the UI element reverts
to its normal state. In practice, this meant that the stylistic change **might
travel around a given screen** in a single interaction sequence - all without
permanently affecting the overall visual hierarchy.

This solution combined the best of coach marks (context in space) with
tutorial walkthroughs and other contextual aids (context in time) to provide
**continual, subtle, just-in-time indication** of what became known internally
as **"Suggested Actions"**.

### My Role

As the **primary designer and prototyper** for this project, I conceived the
design and **built the prototype** informed by the UX design goals, as well as
the UI development requirements.

### Interesting Challenges

Creating an in-app, just-in-time workflow aid immediately runs the risk of
resurrecting Microsoft Clippy. We knew from the outset that the UI treatment
would have to be a **subtle manipulation of existing UI components**.

Another challenge is the **shifting nature of which action is most
appropriate** on a multi-function, data-driven screen **given the real-time
state of the workflow** and / or the underlying records being acted upon. In
other words, **the correct "suggested action" could not be fixed at design
time** , but would have to shift depending on such context as workflow state,
user role, etc. And in some cases, if an appropriate suggested action could
not be determined, then the UI must revert to a normal, un-prompted state.

The stylistic change must be **subtle enough to avoid distraction** , but just
noticeable enough to **draw attention and evoke action**.

Finally, the interface must still **allow valid actions other than that
suggested** to accommodate unusual workflow situations. In our case, **we
settled on a color shift and slight enlargement** of the suggested element.

### Results

When tested as integrated into other workflow designs, the **suggested action
treatment was universally successful** in increasing task success, while
**only occasionally being recognized for what it was** by test participants -
a testament to its unobtrusive subtlety.

> Part of making the design a success and ensuring its delivery in the product
> was specifying the UI implementation.

## Skills

Usability testing

Heuristic Evaluation, Cognitive Walkthrough

Axure

## Demos / Artifacts

Axure Prototype

Pay special attention to which buttons are green and how that changes during
the workflow, sometimes on a single screen.

[View on Axshare](https://l229me.axshare.com/RCE_Workflow_Fixes.html)

Built with[![Next.js](/_next/static/media/nextjs-logotype-dark-
background.84e239c2.svg)](https://nextjs.org/)by Steve Henty.Hosted
by[![Vercel](/_next/static/media/vercel-logotype-
light.079985bd.svg)](https://vercel.com).

Theme: [![Solarized](/_next/image?url=%2F_next%2Fstatic%2Fmedia%2Fsolarized-
yinyang.529358b9.png&w=1080&q=75)solarized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solarized)
(Why? - [Ethan Schoonover](https://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/) |
[WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/very-mathematical-history-perfect-color-
combination/))

Â© 2015-2024 Steve Henty

